The Best Chocolate Chip Cookie Recipe EVER! 	
4.7 from 167 reviews
	
Print
Recipe type: Dessert
Author: Savory Sweet Life
Prep time: 10 mins
Cook time: 12 mins
Total time: 22 mins
Serves: 48 Cookies
Ingredients

    1 cup (2 sticks) salted butter, softened
    1/2 cup sugar
    1 1/2 cup packed brown sugar
    2 eggs
    2 tsp. vanilla extract
    2 3/4 cups (12 oz) all-purpose flour *If at all possible, please weigh the flour
    3/4 tsp. smallish-medium coarse sea salt
    1 tsp. baking soda
    1 1/2 tsp. baking powder
    2 1/4 cups semi-sweet chocolate chips

Instructions

    Preheat oven to 360 degrees. Cream butter, sugar, and brown sugar until it is nice and fluffy (approx. 3 minutes on medium-high speed on a K-5). Add both eggs and vanilla and beat for an additional 2 minutes. Add baking soda, baking powder, salt, and flour until cookie batter is fully incorporated. Finally add chocolate chips until well distributed. The cookie batter should be somewhat thick. Drop about 2 tablespoons of dough or use a medium cookie scoop and plop the batter onto a baking sheet lined with parchment paper. Bake for 12-14 minutes until the edges are nice and golden brown. Remove from heat and allow the cookies to stay on the cookie sheet for an additional 2 minutes. Pick up the parchment paper with the cookies still on top and transfer to a cool non-porous surface. Allow the cookies to cool on the paper for at least 3 minutes before serving. Enjoy!

Notes

*please do not use table salt, the sea salt gives the cookies a nice flavor and hints of texture. If you only have table salt, use 1/2 tsp. *When using sea salt, you will get small crunchy flecks of salt when you bite into the cookie. If you do not like this taste, go with 1/2 teaspoon of table salt.

*I realized grocery stores sell bags of chocolate chips in 12 oz bags but this recipe really needs every last chip. Otherwise you’ll get cookies with only a few chips in each one and this recipe requires lots of chocolate to bulk the cookie up. You’ll need about 1 1/2 bags.
